this is one of those films that kind of
annoys me because while it is good I saw
a lot more potential in it to be really
outstanding the set up is definitely one
of the most creative Pixar I've come up
with monsters come into children's rooms
at night to scare them not because they
are mindless heartless beasts with no
real sense of what they are doing but
because it's their job monsters are
really no different than people they
live in houses talk and work jobs the
same as us they just somehow have found
a way to access the human world through
Wardrobe dolls then we have the two main
protagonists Sully the top scarer the
factory and his best friend Mike I never
really liked the way these two were
introduced Mike comes across more like
Sully's coach than his friend he keeps
talking to about breaking the scare
record almost like scaring kids is some
kind of a sport in fact that does seem
to be the only thing going on in my
consulting in they are trying to break
the scare record there's a bit of an
energy crisis and mike has a girlfriend
that's it really there are no real major
issues or dilemmas set up in the early
stages the more interesting character is
the antagonist Randall he is frustrated
by the fact Sulley is a better scare
than him and he's trying to find a way
to become more productive it is revealed
later in the film for with the help of
the head of the company waternoose
he plans to kidnap kids and suck the
screams out of them a great example of
power there are those that will do
anything to keep their business alive
it's established early on that water
News takes great value in Sulley as his
top scarer and yet he is still willing
to banish him to the human world for the
sake of this plan I do have to say
though I don't really know why he
spreads this myth around that humans are
deadly if a monster touches them I mean
that make it much more difficult for him
to find monsters willing to work for him
of course the main thing people remember
about this film is boo or more precisely
the relationship between her and Sulley
it's interesting how Sulley never really
has any real problem with her he's just
scared of her at first because he thinks
she's dangerous fairly soon after
meeting her Sally comes to have fatherly
like feelings towards her
Mike was always happy just to dispose of
her in the easiest and quickest way
possible but Sulley was always insistent
they get her home safely
then later when he unintentionally
as her in a demonstration he realizes
that there actually is something wrong
with scaring kids even if it is for a
good reason
even if the kids are deadly to monsters
that may not necessarily be their fault
so they don't really deserve this this
is definitely a much more interesting
relationship than the one between Mike
and Sulley which brings me on to the one
major thing I didn't like about this
film the relationship between Sulley and
Mike like I said considering they live
and work together they don't really seem
like they're very close now that could
be wrong I'm not saying they dislike
each other it just doesn't seem like
they really care for one another in the
same way that say Woody and Buzz did
Mike acts more like Sally's coach and
sally acts more like Mike's boss most of
the time the only real moment where they
actually act like friends is when Sally
goes to file Mike's papers for him
without him even having to ask as a
result that scene in the cave where they
fall out seemed a bit forced to me what
is Mike even mad at Sulley for they were
banished because they found out about
Randall's plan but he's the one that
told waternoose about it he's the one
that told him about the kid and then
when they get back into the human world
they make up pretty quickly although the
scene where Mike apologizes while
Randall is fighting Sully was pretty
funny
okay I've said enough negative things
about this film let's look at some of
the good things the chase scene in the
warehouse with the doors is one of the
most creative chase scenes I've ever
seen I don't think you will ever see
another film where a character survives
a fall by going through a door while I
don't think she added their image to the
story I love the design of Mike's
girlfriend with her Medusa style hair I
love the part where her snakes get
worried when she mentions she might get
it cut also a nice opening credits
sequence if you can even call it that
when it's just the studios and the movie
title the results were nice ending with
laughs now being used to power the city
instead of scream which means of course
the kids are no longer suffering and you
kind of feel like the ending with roles
being an undercover agent and the
factory being shut down it's a little
unnecessarily complicated though by the
way maybe I'm missing something here but
why do they shut the factory down right
after the bad guys are taken away
I gather there was an energy crisis but
it seems almost like they're shutting
the factory down because the evil plan
has failed was Randall's plan with
sucking the screams out of the kids the
only thing keeping the factory alive or
something
another minor thing I didn't like were
the outtakes during the end credits
I'm not gonna be wrong I thought the
outtakes in a bug's life were really
creative and they had me falling down on
my chair with laughter in Toy Story 2
but but the time they got to this film I
kind of felt like the novelty had worn
off I also didn't like the musical lated
thankfully though this was the last of
the Pixar films to have outtakes
so overall Monsters Inc had a lot of
potential with some great setups and a
lot of creative ideas and there are a
lot of things in it that do work
I like Sully's relationship with boo the
chase scene with the doors is great and
the ending was very satisfying as movies
go it is good but for Pixar I just don't
feel like it pushes the boundaries of
what you can do with animation in the
way that a lot of their films do it
really just felt like a standard buddy
comedy slash chase flick which isn't
helped by the fact that I never really
feel like Mike and Sulley were best
friends Monsters Inc gets a 7 out of 10